development-updates.md, before:

# Development Updates

## Table Of Contents

> Add yours to the TOC if it isn't there already

- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Piper](#piper)
    - [Update #1](#piper-update-1)

- [JeremyAkatsa](#jeremyakatsa)
    - [Update #1](#jeremyakatsa-update-1)

- [sevki yontem](#sevkibaba)
    - [Update #1](#sevkibaba-update-1)


## Contributing

If you are participating in the program, you should be posting or aggregating
your development updates in this document.

- Create a new H2 heading section with your name.
- Add it to the [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- Keep the overall list of people sorted alphabetically.


## Piper

Development updates from [`pipermerriam`](https://github.com/pipermerriam/)

### Piper: Update 1

This is simply a placeholder for now.

## JeremyAkatsa

Development updates from [`jeyakatsa`](https://github.com/jeyakatsa)

### JeremyAkatsa: Update 1

Project Dive-in:
---Altair -- Minimal Light Client Prototype Build (ref: https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/blob/dev/specs/altair/sync-protocol.md)

- [Monday 9/27/21]: Opened repo to begin building out Minimal Light Client Prototype (https://github.com/jeyakatsa/Altair----Minimal-Light-Client-Prototype). Keystore validation issue *almost* resolved (https://github.com/ChainSafe/lodestar/issues/3249). Still working on resolving Local Testnet connection issue locally on terminal.
- ~~[Sunday 9/26/21]: Opened validation connection issue, currently working on resolving Local Testnet connection issue locally on terminal.~~
- ~~[Saturday 9/25/21]: Ran multiple installations, validation error still occurring, moving onto opening issue with Chainsafe before moving onto resolving local testnet connection issue.~~
- ~~[Thursday 9/23/21] Lodestar Beacon sync (with all networks) ran and tested. Sync error passed to Chainsafe core dev to resolve (https://github.com/ChainSafe/lodestar/issues/3220). Currently working on resolving "Keystores not found within network file" issue for Validation (quite possibly through installation type)... running multiple installations to chip away at issue.~~
- ~~[Wednesday 9/22/21] Lodestar Beacon synching error with Chainsafe currently being resolved (synch still processing)..~~
- ~~[Tuesday 9/21/21] Had to restart synch in order to open synch issue with Chainsafe (taking much longer than anticipated (24+ hours) to synch), might need another 24hrs+ since synch restarted.~~
- ~~[Monday 9/20/21] Connected to Testnet, synching Lodestar Beacon Node with terminal (awaiting sync to complete). Logging errors to open GitHub issue reports through Chainsafe when possible.~~
- ~~[Sunday 9/19/21] Installed Yarn and Lodestar on Git terminal, moving onto connecting Mainnet.~~
- ~~[Sunday 9/19/21] Installing Yarn for Lodestar in order to start building out a light client implementation (or prototype if feasable)~~

## sevkibaba

Development updates from [`sevkibaba`](https://github.com/sevkibaba/)

### sevkibaba: Update 1

[See notes on Stage-1](./notes/sevki/Stage-1-Notes.md)

Commit message:

dev updates for buchhlz2 aka Dan

development-updates.md, after:

# Development Updates

## Table Of Contents

> Add yours to the TOC if it isn't there already

- [Contributing](#contributing)

- [Dan](#dan)
    - [Update #1](#dan-update-1)

- [JeremyAkatsa](#jeremyakatsa)
    - [Update #1](#jeremyakatsa-update-1)

- [Piper](#piper)
    - [Update #1](#piper-update-1)

- [sevki yontem](#sevkibaba)
    - [Update #1](#sevkibaba-update-1)


## Contributing

If you are participating in the program, you should be posting or aggregating
your development updates in this document.

- Create a new H2 heading section with your name.
- Add it to the [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- Keep the overall list of people sorted alphabetically.

## Dan
Development updates from [`buchhlz2`](https://github.com/buchhlz2/)

### Dan: Update 1
[Link to update #1](https://hackmd.io/@dtb/Sk0Q0GW4K)

## JeremyAkatsa

Development updates from [`jeyakatsa`](https://github.com/jeyakatsa)

### JeremyAkatsa: Update 1

Project Dive-in:
---Altair -- Minimal Light Client Prototype Build (ref: https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/blob/dev/specs/altair/sync-protocol.md)

- [Monday 9/27/21]: Opened repo to begin building out Minimal Light Client Prototype (https://github.com/jeyakatsa/Altair----Minimal-Light-Client-Prototype). Keystore validation issue *almost* resolved (https://github.com/ChainSafe/lodestar/issues/3249). Still working on resolving Local Testnet connection issue locally on terminal.
- ~~[Sunday 9/26/21]: Opened validation connection issue, currently working on resolving Local Testnet connection issue locally on terminal.~~
- ~~[Saturday 9/25/21]: Ran multiple installations, validation error still occurring, moving onto opening issue with Chainsafe before moving onto resolving local testnet connection issue.~~
- ~~[Thursday 9/23/21] Lodestar Beacon sync (with all networks) ran and tested. Sync error passed to Chainsafe core dev to resolve (https://github.com/ChainSafe/lodestar/issues/3220). Currently working on resolving "Keystores not found within network file" issue for Validation (quite possibly through installation type)... running multiple installations to chip away at issue.~~
- ~~[Wednesday 9/22/21] Lodestar Beacon synching error with Chainsafe currently being resolved (synch still processing)..~~
- ~~[Tuesday 9/21/21] Had to restart synch in order to open synch issue with Chainsafe (taking much longer than anticipated (24+ hours) to synch), might need another 24hrs+ since synch restarted.~~
- ~~[Monday 9/20/21] Connected to Testnet, synching Lodestar Beacon Node with terminal (awaiting sync to complete). Logging errors to open GitHub issue reports through Chainsafe when possible.~~
- ~~[Sunday 9/19/21] Installed Yarn and Lodestar on Git terminal, moving onto connecting Mainnet.~~
- ~~[Sunday 9/19/21] Installing Yarn for Lodestar in order to start building out a light client implementation (or prototype if feasable)~~

## Piper

Development updates from [`pipermerriam`](https://github.com/pipermerriam/)

### Piper: Update 1

This is simply a placeholder for now.

## sevkibaba

Development updates from [`sevkibaba`](https://github.com/sevkibaba/)

### sevkibaba: Update 1

[See notes on Stage-1](./notes/sevki/Stage-1-Notes.md)
