notes/cesarbrazon/5_account-migration.md, before:

# Account Migration

## EIP 3074


**Cool use cases**

- Paying for gas with tokens: Using non-eth assets to pay for gas
- Automated gas pricing: Resubmitting transactions with optimal gas price
- Subidized dApps
- Off-Chain fee payments

Currently, we can not fake msg.sender natively 

It aims to give an EOA the capacity to give total control of his account to an invoker. The invoker is the contract that must be trusted, it can do whatever if wants once it has the signature of an account, it needs to be secure and audited

***Definitions**

EOA:
- Sponsor: Pays for gas & submits transaction
- Sponsee: Wants to get a transaction on-chain

Contracts
- Invoker: Uses the `AUTH` & `AUTHCALL` instruction
- Callee: Contract to interact with from the invoker


### Notes
- If you want to send ether in EIP3074 it needs to be from the *invoker*
- Chain ID is important because the invoker should check it to make sure it matches correctly
- Trust an invoker means that the EOA will need to make sure that it works properly, for example, the invoker should be able to correctly handle replay protection, and the EOA will need to check that this invoker indeed does that
- People normally does not check this things, this is a double edge word - The main difference is that here you are giving here totally control of your account
- It can be dangerous if its not used in the correct way, but it allows a lot of flexibility, if we want to achieve mass adoption of Ethereum we will want this kind new Account experience (AC)


- Alternative to AA which is improving the UX of EOA
- We need to find a way to authenticate as an EOA in the execution.
- Allows you to pass the `msg.sender` through different jumps (or calls).
- Further downs the two type accounts
- With [Rich Transactions](https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/rich-transactions-via-evm-bytecode-execution-from-externally-owned-accounts/4025/) we can make EOA batch multiple transactions into one

### Implementation details

- `AUTH` and `AUTHCALL` opcodes will be introduced
- Add a new precompile contract 




## EIP 2938

- Reduces client complexity - Account abstraction removes EOA. Authorization logic will be moved to Smart Contract execution layer
- If a new user wants to create a new wallet, he needs to pay for the deployment of the AA contract

With this EIP we want to add multiple improvements, being the most important that we can add signature verification other than ECSDA which allows to make Ethereum post-quantum resistant

In order to implement AA, we require merging EIP 2937 or preserve nonce on self destruct

- Two categories: Single-tenant and Multi-tenants.
  Single-tenant are for wallet and basically an account per user case. Multi-tenants will aim in account for many users, like tornado cash or uniswap. AA support for multi-tenant applications requires more research and is proposed as future work; so first, single-tenant is the ony that's going to be developed

### Implementation details

- `NONCE` and `PAYGAS` opcodes will be introduced
- Changes to mempool rules
- A new type of transaction would be added, they are called "AA transactions" and the payload should be `rlp([nonce, target, data])`

  The transaction would consists on two process:

  1. Authentication, is the process where the caller can indeed call this contract. This will happen in an isolated environment, throwing if the authentication process try to access memory, or write storage. This process should be a pure function, or only interact with precompiled contracts.
  2. Execution, here, the opcode `PAYGAS` will be triggered at first, and will calculate the gas price and gas limit for the transaction. Note that if the transaction fails, the contract will not be refunded.






  ## Differences
  - Introducing a new transaction type means new mem pools rules need to be implemented, we need to be careful with this because it can cause service vector or additional proccesing
  - Introducing a new opcode is more easier and less intrusive

### Resources

- https://blog.ethereum.org/2015/07/05/on-abstraction/
- EIP 101 - https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/28
- Implementing AA on Eth1.X https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/implementing-account-abstraction-as-part-of-eth1-x/4020
- EIP 2938 - https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-2938.md
- Spending gas from contract's balance - https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/61
- Account Abstraction: What & Why - https://our.status.im/account-abstraction-eip-2938/
- Account Abstraction with EOF - https://notes.ethereum.org/@axic/account-abstraction-with-eof
- Tradeoffs in AA - https://ethresear.ch/t/tradeoffs-in-account-abstraction-proposals/263/37
- Account Abstraction from main chain - https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/859
- Account Abstraction rationale - https://hackmd.io/y7uhNbeuSziYn1bbSXt4ww?view
- PEEPanEIP #27: EIP-3074: Native Sponsored Transactions with Sam Wilson - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4A3N8dvdaSk

## TODO:

- Why do we want to migrate away from EOAs? The first argument on post-quantum
- Read about State transition functions (EVM)

Commit message:

chore: added notes on EIP 2938

notes/cesarbrazon/5_account-migration.md, after:

# Account Migration

## EIP 3074


**Cool use cases**

- Paying for gas with tokens: Using non-eth assets to pay for gas
- Automated gas pricing: Resubmitting transactions with optimal gas price
- Subidized dApps
- Off-Chain fee payments

Currently, we can not fake msg.sender natively 

It aims to give an EOA the capacity to give total control of his account to an invoker. The invoker is the contract that must be trusted, it can do whatever if wants once it has the signature of an account, it needs to be secure and audited

***Definitions**

EOA:
- Sponsor: Pays for gas & submits transaction
- Sponsee: Wants to get a transaction on-chain

Contracts
- Invoker: Uses the `AUTH` & `AUTHCALL` instruction
- Callee: Contract to interact with from the invoker

### Notes
- If you want to send ether in EIP3074 it needs to be from the *invoker*
- Chain ID is important because the invoker should check it to make sure it matches correctly
- Trust an invoker means that the EOA will need to make sure that it works properly, for example, the invoker should be able to correctly handle replay protection, and the EOA will need to check that this invoker indeed does that
- People normally does not check this things, this is a double edge word - The main difference is that here you are giving here totally control of your account
- It can be dangerous if its not used in the correct way, but it allows a lot of flexibility, if we want to achieve mass adoption of Ethereum we will want this kind new Account experience (AC)


- Alternative to AA which is improving the UX of EOA
- We need to find a way to authenticate as an EOA in the execution.
- Allows you to pass the `msg.sender` through different jumps (or calls).
- Further downs the two type accounts
- With [Rich Transactions](https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/rich-transactions-via-evm-bytecode-execution-from-externally-owned-accounts/4025/) we can make EOA batch multiple transactions into one

### Implementation details

- `AUTH` and `AUTHCALL` opcodes will be introduced
- Add a new precompile contract 




## EIP 2938

**Cool uses cases**

- Smart Contract Wallet: On-chain contract that providers additional features
- Mixer: Anonymizes funds by pooling many deposits into a pool, today, relayer pays for gas & is reimbursed, with eip 2938, the fees are deducted directly from withdrawal
- In-App tokens: dApp has its own token which entitles users to pay for gas 


### Notes

Allows a contract to be the top-level account that pays fees and start transaction execution

- Reduces client complexity - Account abstraction removes EOA. Authorization logic will be moved to Smart Contract execution layer
- If a new user wants to create a new wallet, he needs to pay for the deployment of the AA contract

With this EIP we want to add multiple improvements, being the most important that we can add signature verification other than ECSDA which allows to make Ethereum post-quantum resistant

In order to implement AA, we require merging EIP 2937 or preserve nonce on self destruct

- Two categories: Single-tenant and Multi-tenants.
  Single-tenant are for wallet and basically an account per user case. Multi-tenants will aim in account for many users, like tornado cash or uniswap. AA support for multi-tenant applications requires more research and is proposed as future work; so first, single-tenant is the ony that's going to be developed

- Remove the necessity of relayers, you would just need to relay on the clients, since the contract takes care of paying for the gas
- This EIP adds extensive changes to the protocol, it's a must that new mempool rules are added, every client implements it exactly the same way and they need to make sure that every one behaves exactly the same

### Implementation details

- `NONCE` and `PAYGAS` opcodes will be introduced
- Changes to mempool rules
- A new type of transaction would be added, they are called "AA transactions" and the payload should be `rlp([nonce, target, data])`

  The transaction would consists on two process:

  1. Authentication, is the process where the caller can indeed call this contract. This will happen in an isolated environment, throwing if the authentication process try to access memory, or write storage. This process should be a pure function, or only interact with precompiled contracts.
  2. Execution, here, the opcode `PAYGAS` will be triggered at first, and will calculate the gas price and gas limit for the transaction. Note that if the transaction fails, the contract will not be refunded.



## Differences
  - Introducing a new transaction type means new mem pools rules need to be implemented, we need to be careful with this because it can cause service vector or additional proccesing
  - Introducing a new opcode is more easier and less intrusive

### Resources

- https://blog.ethereum.org/2015/07/05/on-abstraction/
- EIP 101 - https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/28
- Implementing AA on Eth1.X https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/implementing-account-abstraction-as-part-of-eth1-x/4020
- EIP 2938 - https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-2938.md
- Spending gas from contract's balance - https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/61
- Account Abstraction: What & Why - https://our.status.im/account-abstraction-eip-2938/
- Account Abstraction with EOF - https://notes.ethereum.org/@axic/account-abstraction-with-eof
- Tradeoffs in AA - https://ethresear.ch/t/tradeoffs-in-account-abstraction-proposals/263/37
- Account Abstraction from main chain - https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/859
- Account Abstraction rationale - https://hackmd.io/y7uhNbeuSziYn1bbSXt4ww?view
- PEEPanEIP #27: EIP-3074: Native Sponsored Transactions with Sam Wilson - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4A3N8dvdaSk

## TODO:

- Why do we want to migrate away from EOAs? The first argument on post-quantum
- Read about State transition functions (EVM)
